# Flow-Diagrams
Simple UI for Designing Flow Diagrams

This software allows you to create a flow diagram for a program designed to run on the PIC16F876/876A/886 microcontroller. Once the flow diagram is created, it can be exported to an XML file, which can then be programmed directly onto the hardware using Chris Claire's software.

From the "Insert" menu, you can insert one of nine different boxes, each of which is a step in the program. Input boxes take the value at the input port and store it in a specified register. Process boxes can process information stored in registers, such as adding, subtracting, equating, ANDing, ORing, etc. Process boxes also have a "Wait" setting, causing the program to stop and wait for the specified number of milliseconds. Output boxes take the value of a register and copy it to the output port. Decision boxes are similar to if statements: they perform a test, and follow one of two different paths depending on the result of the test. Read ADC boxes read the voltage at the ADC input of the PIC, and store the result in a specified register. End boxes terminate execution of program, freezing the value at the output port. Break boxes are similar to break points in a program, and when a break box is reached, program execution will pause, and control is given back to the PC running the software. You can then inspect the input and output ports, as well as the values in each of the registers. A subroutine can be created, and will appear as another tab (besides "Main Program"), and it can be called using a subroutine box. Subroutines that end with a return box will return control back to the main program when the return box is reached. This is like a "return" statement in C/C++.

Boxes can be moved by left-clicking and dragging to the desired location. Boxes can be selected by right-clicking on them, and links can be created by right-clicking and dragging to the desired box. A box select can be performed by right-clicking (not on a box) and dragging, and all the boxes within the box select will become selected when the right mouse button is released. Box parameters can be set by double-clicking on the box. The interface can be panned using the middle mouse button, and the start box can be centred using the shortcut Ctrl+F.

You can run this program by downloading the "FlowDiagrams.zip" file, extracting all, and running the FlowDiagrams.jar file.
